The iPhone 5S is a phone that takes everything Apple has learned in this space over the last six and a half years and put it together in an incredibly cohesive manner.
If you want to match it spec for spec with other smartphones, then it's a difficult task - but it misses the point of Apple's new device.

Below the surface Apple has put together one of the most cutting-edge smartphones around, imbued with a top-end camera and a really innovative feature with Touch ID.
There's only so much that smartphone manufacturers can do to differentiate these days, and while Apple can't expect consumers to be wowed by the same shell, it can expect to get some interest in the sharp camera and gives a sense of relief with the new A7 chip.

We're also really intrigued to see what the M7 chip alongside will do - Apple is giving developers a really cool tool to play with, and it looks like it won't be too long before we see the fruits of that.
Yes, the A7 chip doesn't have a huge role to play now, but it does make things like camera use so much faster, and facilitates the increased security in Touch ID.

The iPhone 5S is, predictably, the best iPhone ever from Apple - but what's intriguing is just how much we enjoyed using this evolutionary device.
There's always an apathy with any kind of 'S' device from Apple, as it's historically just the same thing made a little bit better. It's true the advances on the iPhone 5S are few, but the ones that are there are very impressive indeed.
64 bit apps, while consumers are paying to not have access yet, are coming to really turbocharge the experience, and the A7 processor is clearly capable of some very heavy lifting.
The camera is improved impressively, taking some excellent shots with minimal backlift needed from the user, and the Touch ID sensor is the first real step into biometrics on a smartphone, and one that Apple has succeeded in implementing.
So to say this is the best iPhone yet is relatively pointless, as of course it was going to be. But the combination of iOS 7 to freshen things up with a powerful core and great camera mean that this phone should be considered on its own considerable merits, and while the high price will continue to put many off, anyone already wedded to the iPhone bandwagon, or even if they're just on the fence, will find a lot of joy in a phone that's a lot more than an iterative update.

It's fair to say that the iPhone 5S isn't an improvement over the iPhone 5 when it comes to build quality, because its predecessor was so well made. In fact, it's hard to see where Apple could improve. In our opinion, the iPhone 5S is still the best looking smartphone out there. Its precision cut aluminium rear sits absolutely flush with glass panels that sit at the top and bottom. Its neat bevelled edges are perfectly formed and the 7.3mm thick phone feels incredibly comfortable in the hand. Weighing just 112g, which still feels almost impossibly light when you pick up the smartphone for the first time, the iPhone 5S is still incredible to look at and hold.

Honestly, it doesn't feel too small now. Yes, large screen smartphones have their place, but if you want something that's easier to carry, fits comfortably in your hand and can be slipped into any pocket, then the iPhone 5S is that phone.

For this year's models, the white model is the same as last year's, but there's also two new colours. Space Gray replaces the 'black' model of last year and is subtly different, with the case a purer grey than last year's blue-grey model. It's the Gold edition that's really different. Pictures don't do it justice, as it tends to look quite garish, but in the flesh the champagne gold finish is altogether more subtle and classier.

Gold model aside, the biggest issue of the iPhone 5S's looks is that to the untrained eye it doesn't look as though you've bought a new phone, although Apple has at least eased the burden by taking the iPhone 5 off sale, replacing it with the plastic iPhone 5C instead.

From a distance, the iPhone 5S looks almost like a replica of the iPhone 5. This is both a good, as well as a bad thing, depending on what you're seeking. If you're happy with the compact form factor of the iPhone 5, then you have a reason to cheer since most high-end flagships come with big screens and often sacrifice ergonomics and usability. However, if you're someone looking for a big display, you're in for repeated disappointment.


The iPhone 5S sports the same dimensions (123.8x58.6x7.6mm) and weight (112g) as the iPhone 5, and the same aluminium chassis, glass panel and chamfered edges. Apple has introduced two new colours though, namely, Space Gray, that replaces the Black and Slate colour variant, and a new Champagne Gold variant. We got a Silver and White model, the third colour variant of the phone, as our review unit. It's been said that the Space Gray variant is less prone to wear compared to the Slate and Black model.

The front of the iPhone 5S is dominated by the same 4 inch Retina display seen on the iPhone 5, sporting a resolution of 640 x 1136 pixels with a pixel density of 326ppi. We feel the display is still the best in its class offering excellent brightness, wide viewing angles, and under-sun legibility. Images and text look crisp and sharp, and if you're happy with the screen size, you don't really have much to complain about.

The Home button, which is the only key on the front, is located just below the display, but sports a silver ring around it. It's one of the few visible changes that you'd see in the iPhone 5S. Its purpose is much more than being a cosmetic enhancement. It is part of the Touch ID fingerprint sensor which is integrated with the Home button and offers an alternative way of securing the phone.

Like the iPhone 5, the Mute switch and the Volume rocker key sit at the left top edge, while the Power/ Screen lock key sits on the top. The 3.5mm headset port and the lightning connector is located at the bottom edge along with the speaker grill, and the nano-sim tray is placed at the right edge.

The back features the same Silver coated aluminium plate and White glass strips, with the upper strip featuring the camera and the new pill-shaped dual-LED Trutone flash, the other visible change.

In terms of the build and look and feel, the iPhone 5S has not undergone any visible change, but going by the past, 'S' iterations of the iPhone don't really get a makeover in looks.

The iPhone 5S is the first widely available smartphone to be powered by a chip that features 64-bit architecture. Apple also claims that its A7 chip delivers CPU and graphics performance up to two times faster than its predecessor. We'd like to clarify that the speed bump is not related to the processor being 64-bit. Though it lays the foundation of the future; the 64-bit architecture will help in better memory management and will work in tandem with apps optimized for it as they're made available. It also supports OpenGL ES 3.0 standard for enhanced graphics performance especially while playing 3D games.

In terms of performance, the iPhone 5S outperforms the iPhone 5 and matches the levels of flagship Android phones. Games like Infinity Blade II and even the newly-launched Angry Birds Go! run without any frame drops or stutters. Launching apps and navigating through menus was also a pain-free experience, though we did not notice a major improvement compared to the iPhone 5.

The iPhone 5S also features the M7 co-processor which dedicatedly handles the task of measuring data from motion sensors like the accelerometer, gyroscope and compass without involving the main processor, leading to better battery life. It also has the ability to recognize different kinds of motion through this data. The data is more accurate and can be used by fitness tracking apps and health apps such as pedometer apps.

Apple promises improved battery backup with the iPhone 5S. While the standby time delivered is indeed better than the iPhone 5, the phone will still last you less than a day with moderate to heavy usage on a 3G network. After full charge, the battery lasted around nine hours with moderate to heavy use.

It is worth pointing out that the phone was hooked on to 3G data, with intermittent access to Wi-Fi, and screen brightness levels were set to medium. Usage included some phone calls, two email accounts and Facebook and Twitter use with push notifications, a few minutes of web browsing and gaming, and clicking some pictures. The phone charges really quick, so if you do carry a charger (as most iPhone users do!), you can re-energize your iPhone in a jiffy.


The iPhone 5S sports a biometric fingerprint sensor that Apple likes to call Touch ID in line with its primary function of acting as an additional security layer. The Touch ID is integrated with the iPhone 5S Home button through a scratch resistant sapphire glass, which is undoubtedly the gateway to access the phone, along with its touch panel. While Apple already offers a 4 digit passcode lock to protect the iPhone, the Touch ID offers a simple, yet effective way to authenticate the phone for unlocking it, or while purchasing content from the App Store and iTunes Store.

It's worth pointing out that you'll still need to set-up a pass code and verify at at certain times, in addition to verifying the biometric fingerprint.

Up to five impressions of fingers (including thumbs) can be added. This means that you can also add finger impressions of different individuals, in case more than one person uses the phone.

Among the few things to note here, it's not possible to solely use the Touch ID for authentication and you can still unlock the phone through the pass code. You'll also need to enter the pass code when you reboot the iPhone, or if you don't use Touch ID for 48 hours or more.

Perhaps, Apple doesn't want to take any chances and feels that the technology is still not evolved to a level where it can be totally relied upon. Having said that, the Touch ID is one of the most easy to configure and use consumer focused biometric sensor, as it can read fingerprints in 360-degree, giving you the flexibility to place your finger in any orientation. In our use, we did not encounter any hiccups while using it.

The iPhone 5S supports all GSM and UMTS/HSPA+ (3G) networks in India as well as Indian LTE networks (Band 40 - 2300MHz), which means you'll be able to access high speed Internet when compatible 4G networks are rolled out. Airtel has already announced support for the phone in Bangalore, where it has a 4G network.

The iPhone 5S does not support NFC, however, it does allow users to transfer files such as photos and videos, directly to compatible iOS devices through AirDrop, over Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. Both devices don't need to be connected to the same Wi-Fi network. This feature was introduced with iOS 7.

The iPhone 5S runs iOS 7, the latest iteration of Apple's mobile operating system. According to Apple it's the most significant iOS update since the original iPhone. It brings an overhauled user interface design including new icons, native apps and a number of new features.

When you unlock the screen, you'll see that the home screen features a new Parallax Motion effect, making the background wallpaper shift by utilizing the iPhone's accelerometer, giving an appearance of depth. The interface has been stripped off skeuomorphic elements like leather and felt, and bevelled buttons, that have been replaced by flat shapes and gradients, and text. A new 'swipe to right' gesture has also been introduced to go back, one step, while navigating an app.

iOS 7 also introduces Control Center which is central destination that offers access to controls for most used settings and an overhauled Notification Centre. The OS also offers updated native apps. You can read our detailed review of iOS 7 to know more about the software.

The new UI takes some getting used to and some elements such as text buttons and swipe to right to go back gesture are a little unintuitive as they're not apparent. However, it brings a fresh approach to design and the platform feels almost new. We still feel Apple could have made the design of the system icons better, given that the company is known for its obsession with design and the attention to detail.

The phone also comes with an updated version of Siri, the company's virtual assistant, and iTunes Radio, the free streaming online radio service from Apple. Siri now offers information from more sources including Twitter and Wikipedia, and gives a choice between a male and female voice. However, it's still not very useful in India as it can't help you with directions, or movie listings or restaurant reviews. Many a times, it also struggled to recognise our accent. Hindi support for Siri is still amiss.

iTunes Radio is not available in India (unless you have a US iTunes account). One of the more innovative software feature is FaceTime Audio allowing iPhone users to call each other for free over the internet.

Overall, the iPhone 5S offers one of the best software experiences we've come across. It would be able to satisfy power users, while offering the stability and finesse that the iPhone is known for. It's also safe to say that iOS is the developers' favourite platform, offering the widest selection of quality apps. The number of niche apps available for creating content on the platform is unmatched. Apple is also offering its own iLife (iPhoto, Garageband and iMovie) and iWork (Pages, Keynote and Numbers) apps as a free download with the iPhone 5S. These apps allow you to create and edit multimedia, and office documents.
Camera
Apple has never believed in running the megapixel count race and has instead focused on delivering a usable camera that takes quality pictures, consistently. The iPhone 5 camera is still one of the best in the market, and the iPhone 5S camera takes the experience to the next level.

The camera on the iPhone 5S offers a 15% larger sensor, bigger pixels and an f/2.2 aperture to allow more light to come in. The improved optics result in much better low-light pictures compared to the ones shot with an iPhone 5. The level of noise and distortion while capturing lit objects in low-light conditions, is much lower in pictures taken with the iPhone 5S. We also found colour reproduction to be more accurate, and white balance to be in perfect harmony, thanks to the new image signal processor, part of the phone's A7 chip.

Images taken in daylight and indoor light turned out to be excellent, placing the iPhone 5S camera in the league of the best camera phones available in the market. There was no shutter lag or focus issues.

The iPhone 5S also offers a continuous burst mode with the ability to take 10 pictures per second. This feature is exclusive to the iPhone 5S and is best for capturing moments that involve motion. For instance clicking your dog or baby or a sporting action without missing a second is a breeze with the iPhone 5S.

Though it lacks Optical Image Stabilization, which is a hardware feature, Apple has added Electronic Image Stabilization (EIS) to the camera to minimize noise and blur while taking pictures with shaky hands by combining the best shots.

The phone's video recording capabilities at 1080p resolution, 30 fps, are also at par with its ability to shoot stills. In addition to these features, the iPhone 5S also offers a Slo-Mo mode for slow motion video capture at 120 fps, allowing you to add some novelty.

The phone also offers a dual-LED True Tone flash for taking more natural pictures in the dark.

The FaceTime HD front camera has also got a BSI (back illuminated sensor) taking better pictures in low-light conditions, in case you like shooting selfies.

The iOS 7 camera app has also evolved and now offers a new 'square' mode in addition to the Photo, Video, Pano (Panorama), Slo-Mo and Square that can be switched with a simple swipe. The new app also features Instagram-like filters to add effects to photos before or after capturing them. Burst mode photos can be shot by simply long-pressing the shutter button.

So with all the new features and hardware upgrades, is the iPhone 5S worth a buy? At a starting price of Rs 53,500, the phone would certainly not appeal to the price conscious buyer. You can get better flagship phones, including the LG G2, the HTC One, and the Sony Xperia Z1, at a lower price, delivering a good feature set and sporting top-end hardware. You can even get the Nexus 5 at a much lower price in case you're ready to settle for a much inferior camera and build quality.

Having said that, even if you're not an iOS user but want to invest in a device that will last you more than an year (even two years), receive regular software updates, deliver a consistent camera and stable software experience, and offer a premium yet solid look and feel, then we'd recommend the iPhone 5S.

If you're invested in the Apple ecosystem, and don't want to look anywhere else, the iPhone 5S, is the best smartphone available in the market. But if you already own an iPhone 5 and don't have some extra cash lying around, we'd recommend waiting for the next update. If you own an iPhone 4S or iPhone 4, don't want to spend much, and are happy with a plastic shell, then you can also consider at the less-blessed iPhone 5C, the iPhone 5S's cheaper sibling.